yes sir I had a question over the last
couple of days there's been this whole
thing about the scandal about the US
Attorney's and their I'm firing and a
lot of people seeing this as the
administration having less tolerance for
distinction and it seems like a lot of
people have seen this administration is
being one that doesn't have a place for
voices of dissent and I just wondered
why you might want to respond to that
well the question was about the US
Attorney's let me just say that the US
Attorney's serve a US Attorney serves at
the pleasure of the President so the
president's typically tend to return to
make changes in these over time while
they're in office when we came in in in
2001 we reviewed all 93 US Attorney's
and over a course of time replaced
virtually all of them with appointees by
the president not all several of the
appointees were involved in high-profile
cases important investigations and as a
result even though they were appointees
of the previous administration we left
them in office for in some instances
years in this instance the Department of
Justice looked at US Attorney's and made
on the basis of policy or performance a
decision to replace seven of them this
is not unusual in the case of the
Clinton administration they replaced all
93 US Attorney's at the beginning of
their term and then over the course of
the next eight years 30 US Attorney's
were replaced 30 more were replaced a
total of 123 US Attorney's were replaced
we've replaced the original 93 most of
them there's still a handful left from
the Clinton era and we've replaced
though a total of 128 because some of
these slots have been held more than by
more than one individual in each of
these instances a decision was made at
the Department of Justice on the basis
of policy personnel for example there
was a principled decision by the woman
who was the US Attorney for the set for
the San Diego Southern District of
California that she would not commit
resources to prosecute immigration
offenses she made a decision that that
was not going to be a priority office
the US Justice Department asked her to
make it so she did not fact that US
Senator Dianne Feinstein a Democrat
complained in writing about the failure
of this US Attorney to prioritize
immigration suits
the US attorney in Arizona said he would
not ask for the death penalty this
administration has a policy of where
appropriate asking for the death penalty
these are reasonable and appropriate
disagreements where the administration
is justified in acting now we're at a
point where people want to play politics
with it and that's fine I would simply
ask that everybody who's playing
politics with this be asked to comment
about what they think about the removal
of a hundred and twenty three US
attorneys during the previous
administration and see if they had the
same super heated political rhetoric
then that they're having now and my
suspicion is that we won't be able to
find that they had that same kind of
approach back then when and look every
presidents entitled to do it President
Clinton was entitled to come in and if
he wanted to as he did ask for the
immediate resignation or removal from
office of all 93 US Attorney's we didn't
do it that way we came in and even if we
were going to replace that individual we
said we'd like some time to identify a
potential successor and we'd like you to
stay on the job so this to my mind is a
lot of politics and I understand that's
what Congress has a right to play around
with and they're going to do it and I
just asked the American people and asked
Congress to look fairly and carefully at
what's being said and done